I see that there are some
questions from the class in chat.
So Oscar asks,
how practical are these typed challenges?
He says, I can understand you will learn
the ins and outs of the language better.
But how often do you need to write these
kinds of typed operations in your code or
is the biggest benefit that this is about
understanding how TypeScript works.
And that's exactly the point here.
This I'm not suggesting
that we do like CSV parsing
in the TypeScript types themselves.
What I'm suggesting is these kinda
acrobatics give you the practice to
where when you do encounter the occasional
challenging thing you have to
do in your real world code,
by comparison, it will seem easy, right?
So if you need to run a marathon you
have to do a lot of training beforehand.
It's probably flood example because
the marathon is more complicated.
The bigger feet in that case but
the idea is I want your everyday work and
your everyday use of
TypeScript to feel routine.
And part of that is sort of
raising the ceiling on what you
consider to be challenging or
your ability to do things.
So that's why we kind of get into
these moral contrived things.
It's about getting, turning back to
that book that I talked about in
the introduction of the course,
making it stick.
It's about that desirable difficulty
where you actually retain more,
maybe thanks to this, you understand more
about how template literal types work or
how tuples work or rest and spread and
how those work when it comes to types.
And then when you do something
a little bit more reasonable unless
contrived in your own code.
Shouldn't seem pretty easy by comparison.
All right Michael S in chat asks
whether to ernary expressions
with the extends keyword or
the only way to do conditional type.
So just refresh,
that is something like this right?
So yes,
a conditional type is always like this.
A extends, B question mark, if true
colon if false, something like that.
Like there's no alternate syntax I'm
aware of for doing this kind of thing.
So it's, the only thing available.
Okay, fantastic.
So let's dig into this last of the medium
difficulty challenges is tuple.
So the idea here is we should be
able to take a type puram T and
evaluate out to true if
thing is a tuple and
evaluate out to false if it's not a tuple.
So, here use cases to
look at Read Only arrays.
Sorry read only tuples
are regarded as tuples.
Something that has a length property,
which is one way we might try to determine
whether something is array like.
This is not a tuple and most importantly,
an array is not necessarily a tuple.
So that should be false.
Okay, does anyone have any ideas about
how we could take a first pass of this?
Maybe tackle one one
piece of this problem?
That's one of the things engineering is
all about taking a bigger problem and
then, breaking it down into smaller,
more approachable chunks.
>> Extends, read only?
>> That's interesting.
We've had to write, read only in
these conditional types before.
Maybe we need to do that.
I'm not sure I have enough to write
something on the screen though.
I could write extends, read only.
>> T extends.
>> You're right.
>> Okay?
>> And then any array
Okay, almost, so close well, I actually am
not sure how close we are at this point.
So, what we've identified here
is array like things, right,
now this would be great if we
were implementing is array and
this would have been true and
we would be done.
>> Josefa extend extends array and.
So [INAUDIBLE].
>> If it extends array, so
it's in this branch here, right?
Cuz if it's another tuple at all, sorry,
if it's not an array like at all,
we still wanna be false.
So here, Like this.
>> What we're getting at?
>> It's really close, but
we have different tests that light up now.
So now it appears that all writable
arrays are identified right?
That's I'm just basing that
based on this the fact that this
tuple here fails our test.
But this one here passes.
Sorry, read readable arrays
are what we're seeing.
Like this one's fine.
I want to try something wacky here.
Again, I do not have
the solution in front of me.
I know where to get it
if I decided to give up.
What about this?
Nope.
I need a question right here.
Okay, so
that's same as this cheat doesn't work.
That's the same as an array here.
Okay, so we need to know if this
is a array like, I have an idea here.
So something that kind of makes,
at least by the definition of
our test cases here kind of
makes the difference between an array and
a tupple is finite length.
Right, finite like.
So if we could measure the length
of something like one of
the cool things about infinity
is what's infinity minus 1?
>> Infinity
>> Infinity and what 7 minus 1?
>> 6
>> So it stands to reason then if we pop
one element out of this thing and
compare its length links
to the original length and
they are equal we're dealing with
an infinity what if we try that?
We infer the length earlier
that's interesting yeah T
square bracket length for sure.
Yep that could work.
Okay, so let's try this.
I don't wanna leave a array of anys here,
because that seemed to work for us.
So we're gonna leave this false path here,
it's false branch.
This is not even an array thing,
and this is like array, or tuple.
That's the path we're gonna go down.
Okay, so we got to pop one element off.
So we'll say, first Infer first and
the rest again these
are just type rounders.
Sorry They're
just angry because I haven't used them yet
and we don't care about this first one.
Actually, we could do that.
So, and then we could say does, I'm just
gonna try it both ways cuz my brain hurts
when I try to remember which
direction the extends works.
So rest length extends.
So okay, let's make sure
we do this in the same way.
So T extends, so this is another
conditional type here that we need for
plucking out that rest.
And then we're gonna say it does
the length of rest extend T Length.
So this is, And if it does,
then it'll say true, otherwise false.
Let me do my indenting here just to get
us back to where we can stay organized.
So that's this this goes in here,
this goes in here,
I think we need one more false Okay I want
to switch these just in case my comparison
is the root of the problem here.
Interesting all right so
here's what I like about this.
These two cases down here.
Are important.
We have successfully evaluated
a one length tuples to true,
and we've successfully
rejected an array of numbers.
So I think our comparison thing
is kind of working out here.
Read only.
So this makes me think we should
add a read only somewhere.
Like what about here?
Sorry
Just try to feel out whether there's
a constraint here, turns out there was.
so I just made sure that anywhere I was
using this extends thing cuz that's,
again, it's like are greater than or
equal to check but in a type world.
We just had to make sure we had
a read-only in both of these positions so
that this test case here could
appropriately fall through and
hit the right path.
The way I would have identified this,
by the way, this is the situation we
were just in, I would have had this
equivalent test case and said,
hey, it's not about the tuple length or
the member within it at all.
It's the read only thing like I
have a nearly identical case.
So that's where I would say, okay,
something is a read only is
falling down a path based on that.
So I'd want to make sure
that we have that there.
That's how I sniff that out.
All right, now, we're getting close here.
Empty tuple, so this is a case where
our strategy is not gonna work so
well, because our whole basis for
determining what's an array and
what's a tuple is, measuring the length.
So I've got two ideas
that popped into my head
one is the cheap cop out which
is another condition in here.
Another which I think would be even worse,
is instead of pulling something
out of an array and comparing length,
I could push something into an array.
That actually doesn't sound so bad.
In fact, that makes this a lot simpler.
That would be like this.
And I don't have to infer anything
I can use this dot spread thing.
I can just push one more
thing into the array.
I'm gonna see if I can get us back there.
And it works, wow,
that was actually easier.
We got rid of a branch.
So that's the approach
here instead of saying,
let's chop one item off of the array.
I'm saying let's put something new in.
So array of 6 become 7,
7 and 6 are not equal.
Therefore we're dealing with a tupple.
If it was infinity equals
infinity in either direction,
now we know we're dealing with an array.
And here we go.
So this is the key insight here.
I see that Oscar also looks like at
the same time that I was thinking you
about it.
He suggested that we push into a tpple.
So we effectively did that through
the creation of a new tuple type
that spread the existing one and
then added one more thing, right?
So great.
This is how you could tell
tupple from an array.
Now I want to add one more test
case that may totally wreck thing.
I'm just curious as to what
will work at this point.
This test case would have failed us.
And I would argue this is
kind of still a tuple.
It's a tupple of infinite length but
we still sort of have opinions
about the types of certain
members at certain positions.
It's not quite the same
thing as like this here.
I'm not going to go on this rant again.
These are not the same thing T1 and T2.
T2 is an array T1 I have
a different constraint on
the first member of the thing
compared to the rest of it.
But for these test cases it worked
>> Does the concept of tuple
exist outside of TypeScript or
is it specifically a typed concept?
Does that make sense?
>> The concept of tuples definitely
exists outside of Typescript and in fact,
TypeScript just in terms of when
TypeScript was building this out,
it had already been In Python and
Erlang for ages, right?
So and it exists in Duck typed
languages as well, right?
So you could create, I believe you can
create a tuple in something like Ruby,
where just like JavaScript,
right, you just create an array,
put whatever you want in it.
So there are different rules in
different programming languages.
So a lot of programming languages
consider tuples to be immutable.
So you create them you can use
the equivalent of destruction
assignment to pull things out of them but
you're generally not I kind
of be like putting something in
the middle and changing its value.
They're kind of these sort of like cheap
concise small collections of things, yeah.
Scala uses them a lot as well.
Good question.
They're actually far less.
We call them tuples in TypeScript, and
they are but they're under the hood,
they're just a race.
So these are more similar to arrays
than just about anywhere else that you
would deal with a top.
But I'm gonna skip tuple to nested object
just because of time constraints here.
Feel free trying to
solve this on your own.
I'll show you in general type
challenges where you can find answers.
So there is tuple about the nested
object see this one here.
So if you click that you'll be able to
jump to either take the challenge or
checkout solution.
So In terms of your answer key
this is where you could go.